SUMAPP TO-DO / MIND MAP + WBS / GRAPH 3.5.1 — PORTABLE WINDOWS WIDGET

1. Unzip SUMAPP-Windows-x64.zip to a folder you can write to, such as
   your Desktop or Documents. Do not run it from inside the zip.
2. Double-click SUMAPP.exe. No installer, runtime installation, account,
   network connection or administrator privileges are required.

UPDATING: Back up your data first. Close the running app, unzip the new release, then run the
new SUMAPP.exe. Your tasks, projects and preferences are read from the same
profile data folder (%LOCALAPPDATA%\EireTodo). The update needs no manual data
migration. SUMAPP uses readable neutral surfaces, teal actions and its corrected
logo/icon. The Eire header uses the supplied emblem beside the Eire workspace label.
If a previously pinned shortcut keeps an old icon, unpin it and pin the
updated executable through the normal Windows menu.

For 64-bit Windows 10 (22H2) / Windows 11. The executable is unsigned.
If Windows or company policy blocks it, ask your IT administrator to approve
it through the normal process. Do not disable protection or bypass policy.

Add task opens the editor. Project and description are required. Dates are
optional and use dd/MM/yyyy. Category accepts a new value or an existing one.
Notes supports multiple lines. Created time is automatic and cannot be edited.
Click a status checkbox to complete/reopen. Select a row then Edit / notes
(or double-click the row / press Enter) to see and edit full notes.
Delete removes the selected task immediately. Completed tasks stay saved.

Projects lets you create, rename, archive and unarchive projects. Archiving
retains tasks and keeps them visible in All projects and the project view.
New tasks can only be assigned to active projects.

Project view, task search and Hide completed are above the table. More filters
contains notes search, blank notes, category, status, start/finish date ranges
or blank dates, and created date/time ranges. Created bounds use
 dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm (24-hour time); the end includes the entire selected minute.
All active filters combine. Clear filters resets them, including Hide completed.
Invalid filters show a message and retain the previous valid results.
Click column headers to sort. Drag column edges to resize. Scroll sideways
for all eight columns. The task count also shows the number of active filters.

If the upper controls need more space in a small window, scroll that panel.
The task table stays available below it.

Drag the black header to move; drag window edges/corners to resize.
Always on top and opacity are on View > Window and the header gear menu. Opacity defaults to 97% and
ranges from 65% to 100%. Header buttons minimise, maximise/restore and close.
Alt+F4 closes normally. Position, size, opacity, topmost and column widths
are saved automatically. A disconnected monitor is handled by moving an
otherwise inaccessible window to the primary display.

MIND MAPS AND WBS
Click the yellow TO-DO title dropdown to choose MIND MAP / WBS. Both styles
share one module; choose the layout under View > Diagram layout. Switching
modules preserves the saved layout.
Create a diagram, select a cell and press Enter to create a same-level sibling
or Insert to create a child. New cells save immediately and let you type the title directly in the cell.
Enter while typing confirms the title; the next Enter creates the sibling. Insert saves and adds
its child. F2/double-click edits the title. Ctrl+Enter or right-click > Node
details opens full notes, dates and completion. Escape discards pending title
text and keeps the latest saved title; Undo removes a new cell. Enter in a
notes field makes a new line; Ctrl+Enter saves details.
New siblings and children automatically reposition the chart with space for
their branches. New main branches use the less crowded side; existing branches
keep their side. Balance branches redistributes an existing two-sided map.
Choose among five layouts; reorder/indent/outdent, fold/unfold, undo/redo,
zoom with the slider or Ctrl+wheel, and use Fit / centre. Pan across large
charts by dragging empty space or using the wheel. Deleting a node removes its whole branch immediately; Undo restores it. Diagram settings
include a project and scheduling start; From to-do copies a project's tasks.
Copy edits are independent. Diagrams, layout, zoom and selected module persist.

Export CSV / XML / PDF offers general hierarchy CSV, MSP/P6 mapping CSV,
Microsoft Project XML, native P6 XML and PDF chart + full node details.
XML carries hierarchy directly. P6's CSV needs mapping into a P6-exported XLSX
template; it is not a direct P6 CSV import. The guide PLANNING-EXPORTS.md included
with this app provides the exact routes and scheduling/calendar conventions.
Backups/restores include all diagrams, formatting, leads and overdue history. Continue using version 3.5 after making
charts; older versions cannot preserve the new diagram fields when saving.

DRAGGING AND RIBBON
The Home, Insert, Format and View tabs stay visible. Flat vector buttons show
descriptions on hover; controls fit fully in the command band.
Scroll groups horizontally if needed. Double-click a tab or use the arrow
to collapse/expand the ribbon; it starts compact in a very small workspace. Drag a hierarchy node
into a highlighted gap to insert it between siblings. In top-down WBS, the
left/right edges of a cell mean before/after. Other layouts use top/bottom
edges. The centre makes it a child. Right-click > Move before / after also
lets you choose an exact destination. A yellow border indicates the destination.
The whole branch moves, numbering updates, and Undo restores it. A node cannot
be moved into its own branch. Each cell header shows only the WBS code.

Format applies to the selected task description or cell title: font family,
size 12-48, bold/italic/underline and left/centre/right alignment. Format
painter copies the selected style; click the destination task or node to apply.
Click the painter again to cancel. New cells inherit the selection's style.

OVERDUE AND CLOCK
The bottom-right clock shows the computer's local dd/MM/yyyy HH:mm:ss time.
Unfinished tasks/nodes with an entered finish date before today turn red.
Show overdue log (footer or View ribbon) displays active entries and optional
resolved history. Completion, deletion and rescheduling retain the old episode.
The log updates on changes, restart and each minute. Blank finish dates and
items due today are not overdue; planning-export default dates are not due dates.
Hide log closes the panel and saves that preference.

OPEN CANVAS AND GRAPH
New diagrams start centred with open space on every side. Drag empty space,
middle-drag, or hold Space and drag to pan in any direction. The workspace
extends while panning. Wheel pans vertically; Shift+wheel pans horizontally;
Ctrl+wheel zooms around the pointer. View > Canvas > Fit / centre brings the
whole diagram into view. Panning does not change saved node positions.

Choose GRAPH from the title dropdown and create a diagram.
With a node selected, BOTH Enter and Insert add a new node and an outgoing
lead to it, then let you type the title in place. Enter in a title confirms it; a second
Enter creates the next linked node. Holding Enter does not repeat creation. New cells use available
space; existing cells stay put. Insert > New lead style offers Outgoing,
Incoming or Both directions, and Curve or Sharp bends. Insert > Unlinked node
creates an independent cell. Drag Graph nodes freely above/left of the original
position as well as right/below; leads follow and signed positions save.
Insert > Connect nodes arms a lead from the selection; click the other node.
Repeat for multiple incoming/outgoing leads (up to 5,000 per diagram, 1,000 nodes).
Click a lead to select it; Delete removes it immediately. F2/double-click or
Insert > Lead label opens its description editor; Save lead applies the label.
Drag either endpoint handle to a highlighted side centre on any other node.
Right-click also opens options to edit the label, reverse its direction,
or change its shape/arrowheads. Side attachments and labels are saved. Labels follow the lead;
the tooltip and PDF appendix retain the full text. Node details still use
Ctrl+Enter or right-click > Node details.
Graph exports node/lead CSV, Eire graph XML and PDF. PDF excludes the large
workspace margins. WBS planning exports remain in the combined Mind map / WBS
module; arbitrary graph leads are not scheduling dependencies for MSP or P6.
Old Connections diagrams and WBS/mind-map profiles open in the new modules;
there is no manual data migration.

DESIGN, ZOOM AND PDF PREVIEW
Format > Node designs and Colour combinations display miniature previews.
Click a thumbnail to apply; click the down-arrow to see the full gallery.
Choose from 10 designs and 16 colour combinations (10 newly added packs).
Designs include boxes, flat text, underlines, outlines, side accents and mixed
levels. View > Diagram layout previews all five hierarchy arrangements.
Changes save with each diagram and Undo/Redo can reverse them.
Tab / Enter / Space selects an option; Escape closes the expanded gallery.
Nodes are smaller by level and expand vertically to show full wrapped titles.
The app's neutral/teal chrome stays consistent. Ctrl+wheel and the zoom
slider animate the existing views without rebuilding the diagram.

Export > PDF opens a paper preview BEFORE asking for a file. Fit to paper is
on by default with A4 landscape. Choose portrait/landscape, A4/A3, and optional
full-details pages; use the page dropdown to inspect every page. Turning off
Fit to paper enables tiling. Save PDF saves the previewed pages. Print opens
the normal Windows print dialog using the chosen paper/orientation. Printing
uses existing Windows printers and remains subject to normal local permissions.
PDF export needs no printer, separate runtime or external viewer.

DATA
All application data and window settings are stored at:
  %LOCALAPPDATA%\EireTodo\data.json
Paste %LOCALAPPDATA%\EireTodo into File Explorer, or click Data folder.
No data is stored alongside the executable; moving/updating the app keeps it.
The directory is local to the current Windows user. Files are not encrypted.
The bundled runtime may unpack native files under the user's TEMP\.net folder.
This is a cache, not an installed runtime, and contains no task data.

Every task/project/diagram change uses an atomic file replace. Inline titles
autosave after a 400 ms pause and flush before switching/exporting/closing.
A title save failure remains visible and keeps the field open for retry.
Window settings save shortly after changes and are flushed when you close.
Saving errors are displayed; failed task/project edits are not accepted and
an editor remains open for retry. Window-setting failures show a retry banner.
Only one app instance per user's data folder is permitted.

BACKUP AND RESTORE
Backup / export saves one JSON file containing all projects, tasks, categories, diagrams
and settings. Choose a writable backup location outside the live data files.
Restore validates a backup, asks for confirmation, and replaces current data.
A before-restore-*.json safety copy is kept in the data folder.
The previous successful save is kept at data.previous.json. If data.json is
unreadable, the app offers recovery from that copy and preserves the unreadable
file. The previous save may omit the most recent change. For a separate
export backup when recovery is unavailable: close the app, preserve the whole
data folder, move only data.json aside, reopen the app, then use Restore.

Windows UI behaviour has not been executed in the Linux build environment.
See WINDOWS-VERIFICATION.md for the remaining desktop checks. Data, filters,
validation, restart persistence and backup/restore passed automated checks.

VERSION 3.3: Delete projects through Projects -> Delete. Choose where to move
any tasks; empty projects delete immediately. Tasks, diagrams and history are
preserved. Priority is available in task/node details. Node sizing now follows
actual text measurements and reflows after title editing/format changes.

WINDOWS SCREENSHOTS: From the app folder in a normal PowerShell window, run:
.\SUMAPP.exe --capture-previews "$env:USERPROFILE\Pictures\SUMAPP-previews"
This uses isolated temporary sample data and leaves your actual profile intact.
It saves real WPF to-do/mind-map/gallery PNGs and visual-checks.txt. This command cannot
be tested in the Linux cloud environment. See BRANDING.md for current limitations.

VERSION 3.5
Home → Application selects the module. Caption buttons sit at the far right.
Double-click a tab / use the fold icon for compact command icons; hover for help.
View → Placement → Free move: drag any hierarchy node without renumbering.
Nearby nodes make room. Release saves; Esc cancels; Undo restores the arrangement.
Turn Free move off for structural branch dragging. Reset positions restores layout.
Home → Files → Save a copy writes a complete .sumapp snapshot to a chosen folder.
Profile autosave continues. Open saved copy restores after confirmation and backup.
Latest symbol-only logo pending: share-page download was blocked. This build uses
the previous SUMAPP artwork. See BRANDING.md for original-PNG packaging steps.

Home → Brand → Choose logo PNG lets you select your original desktop image.
It updates the header and window/taskbar icons and is preserved in data/backups.
The embedded Explorer executable icon still needs an original-PNG source rebuild.

3.5.1 STARTUP FIX
Bundled artwork loads from executable resources rather than Windows file paths.
Close the failed 3.5 launch, unzip this updated build and run its SUMAPP.exe.
Keep %LOCALAPPDATA%\EireTodo unchanged; your tasks and diagrams use that folder.
